docs/site/editor-integration.md, before:

---
title: Editor Integration
---

# Editor Integration

Get real-time docstring diagnostics as you code. Install the LSP extra, point your editor at `docvet lsp`, and see findings inline.

## Quick Start

```bash
pip install docvet[lsp]
```

This installs both `docvet` (the CLI) and `pygls` (the LSP protocol library). Then follow the setup for your editor below.

## LSP Server

The `docvet lsp` subcommand starts a [Language Server Protocol](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/) server on stdio. Any editor with LSP support can use it.

### Which Checks Run

The LSP server runs three of docvet's four checks on every file you open or save:

| Check | Rules | What It Detects |
|-------|-------|-----------------|
| Enrichment | 10 | Missing Raises, Yields, Attributes, Examples, and more |
| Coverage | 1 | Missing `__init__.py` for mkdocs discoverability |
| Griffe | 3 | Griffe parser warnings for mkdocs rendering |

Freshness checks are excluded because they require git context that is not available in single-file LSP mode.

### Severity Mapping

Diagnostics use two severity levels based on the rule category:

| Category | LSP Severity | Meaning |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| Required | Warning | Core quality issue — e.g., `missing-raises`, `missing-yields` |
| Recommended | Hint | Best practice suggestion — e.g., `missing-examples`, `missing-cross-references` |

See the [Rules reference](rules/missing-raises.md) for rule explanations and fix guidance.

### Configuration

The LSP server reads `[tool.docvet]` from `pyproject.toml` in your project root on startup. All configuration options (excludes, enrichment toggles, etc.) apply to LSP diagnostics. See the [Configuration reference](configuration.md) for details.

### Documentation Links

Each diagnostic includes a link to its rule page on the docs site. Click the link (or hover, depending on your editor) to see an explanation and fix guidance.

## Claude Code

docvet ships as a [Claude Code plugin](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/plugins) with minimal setup.

### Install

```bash
claude plugin install github:Alberto-Codes/docvet
```

**Prerequisites:** `pip install docvet[lsp]` (the plugin calls `docvet lsp` under the hood).

!!! note
    The `lsp` subcommand requires docvet 1.6.0 or later. If `docvet lsp` is not recognized, update with `pip install --upgrade docvet[lsp]`.

### What You Get

Open or save any `.py` file and diagnostics appear inline. The plugin uses the same LSP server described above — same checks, same severity mapping, same configuration.

### Verify

Create a Python file with a known issue:

```python
def greet(name):
    """Say hello."""
    if not name:
        raise ValueError("name must not be empty")
    return f"Hello, {name}"
```

A diagnostic should appear on the function — the docstring is missing a `Raises:` section for `ValueError`.

### Uninstall

```bash
claude plugin remove docvet-lsp
```

## Neovim

### nvim-lspconfig

Add to your Neovim configuration:

```lua
local lspconfig = require("lspconfig")
local configs = require("lspconfig.configs")

if not configs.docvet then
  configs.docvet = {
    default_config = {
      cmd = { "docvet", "lsp" },
      filetypes = { "python" },
      root_dir = lspconfig.util.root_pattern("pyproject.toml", ".git"),
    },
  }
end

lspconfig.docvet.setup({})
```

### Manual (vim.lsp.start)

If you prefer not to use nvim-lspconfig:

```lua
vim.api.nvim_create_autocmd("FileType", {
  pattern = "python",
  callback = function()
    vim.lsp.start({
      name = "docvet",
      cmd = { "docvet", "lsp" },
      root_dir = vim.fs.root(0, { "pyproject.toml", ".git" }),
    })
  end,
})
```

## Other Editors

Any editor with LSP support can use docvet. The server communicates over stdio with these settings:

| Setting | Value |
|---------|-------|
| Command | `docvet lsp` |
| File types | Python (`.py`) |
| Root marker | `pyproject.toml` or `.git` |
| Transport | stdio |

Consult your editor's LSP documentation for how to register a custom language server.

## VS Code

A dedicated VS Code extension is planned (see [issue #160](https://github.com/Alberto-Codes/docvet/issues/160)). In the meantime, you can use a generic LSP client extension to connect to the `docvet lsp` server using the settings in the table above.

Commit message:

docs(docs): clarify griffe dependency and LSP config scope
Address Copilot review: add note that griffe checks require the griffe
extra (silently skipped otherwise), and narrow Configuration section to
accurately describe which options apply in LSP mode (enrichment toggles
and project root yes, file excludes no).

docs/site/editor-integration.md, after:

---
title: Editor Integration
---

# Editor Integration

Get real-time docstring diagnostics as you code. Install the LSP extra, point your editor at `docvet lsp`, and see findings inline.

## Quick Start

```bash
pip install docvet[lsp]
```

This installs both `docvet` (the CLI) and `pygls` (the LSP protocol library). Then follow the setup for your editor below.

## LSP Server

The `docvet lsp` subcommand starts a [Language Server Protocol](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/) server on stdio. Any editor with LSP support can use it.

### Which Checks Run

The LSP server runs three of docvet's four checks on every file you open or save:

| Check | Rules | What It Detects |
|-------|-------|-----------------|
| Enrichment | 10 | Missing Raises, Yields, Attributes, Examples, and more |
| Coverage | 1 | Missing `__init__.py` for mkdocs discoverability |
| Griffe | 3 | Griffe parser warnings for mkdocs rendering |

Freshness checks are excluded because they require git context that is not available in single-file LSP mode.

!!! note
    Griffe checks require the `griffe` extra. Install with `pip install docvet[lsp,griffe]` to enable all three checks. Without it, griffe diagnostics are silently skipped.

### Severity Mapping

Diagnostics use two severity levels based on the rule category:

| Category | LSP Severity | Meaning |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| Required | Warning | Core quality issue — e.g., `missing-raises`, `missing-yields` |
| Recommended | Hint | Best practice suggestion — e.g., `missing-examples`, `missing-cross-references` |

See the [Rules reference](rules/missing-raises.md) for rule explanations and fix guidance.

### Configuration

The LSP server reads `[tool.docvet]` from `pyproject.toml` in your project root on startup. Enrichment rule toggles and project root settings apply to LSP diagnostics. File `exclude` patterns are not enforced — in LSP mode, the editor controls which files are checked. See the [Configuration reference](configuration.md) for details.

### Documentation Links

Each diagnostic includes a link to its rule page on the docs site. Click the link (or hover, depending on your editor) to see an explanation and fix guidance.

## Claude Code

docvet ships as a [Claude Code plugin](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/plugins) with minimal setup.

### Install

```bash
claude plugin install github:Alberto-Codes/docvet
```

**Prerequisites:** `pip install docvet[lsp]` (the plugin calls `docvet lsp` under the hood).

!!! note
    The `lsp` subcommand requires docvet 1.6.0 or later. If `docvet lsp` is not recognized, update with `pip install --upgrade docvet[lsp]`.

### What You Get

Open or save any `.py` file and diagnostics appear inline. The plugin uses the same LSP server described above — same checks, same severity mapping, same configuration.

### Verify

Create a Python file with a known issue:

```python
def greet(name):
    """Say hello."""
    if not name:
        raise ValueError("name must not be empty")
    return f"Hello, {name}"
```

A diagnostic should appear on the function — the docstring is missing a `Raises:` section for `ValueError`.

### Uninstall

```bash
claude plugin remove docvet-lsp
```

## Neovim

### nvim-lspconfig

Add to your Neovim configuration:

```lua
local lspconfig = require("lspconfig")
local configs = require("lspconfig.configs")

if not configs.docvet then
  configs.docvet = {
    default_config = {
      cmd = { "docvet", "lsp" },
      filetypes = { "python" },
      root_dir = lspconfig.util.root_pattern("pyproject.toml", ".git"),
    },
  }
end

lspconfig.docvet.setup({})
```

### Manual (vim.lsp.start)

If you prefer not to use nvim-lspconfig:

```lua
vim.api.nvim_create_autocmd("FileType", {
  pattern = "python",
  callback = function()
    vim.lsp.start({
      name = "docvet",
      cmd = { "docvet", "lsp" },
      root_dir = vim.fs.root(0, { "pyproject.toml", ".git" }),
    })
  end,
})
```

## Other Editors

Any editor with LSP support can use docvet. The server communicates over stdio with these settings:

| Setting | Value |
|---------|-------|
| Command | `docvet lsp` |
| File types | Python (`.py`) |
| Root marker | `pyproject.toml` or `.git` |
| Transport | stdio |

Consult your editor's LSP documentation for how to register a custom language server.

## VS Code

A dedicated VS Code extension is planned (see [issue #160](https://github.com/Alberto-Codes/docvet/issues/160)). In the meantime, you can use a generic LSP client extension to connect to the `docvet lsp` server using the settings in the table above.
