README.md, before:

[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/docvet)](https://pypi.org/project/docvet/)
[![CI](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/Alberto-Codes/docvet/ci.yml?branch=main)](https://github.com/Alberto-Codes/docvet/actions)
[![Coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/Alberto-Codes/docvet/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/Alberto-Codes/docvet)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/docvet)](https://github.com/Alberto-Codes/docvet/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/docvet)](https://pypi.org/project/docvet/)
[![docs vetted](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs%20vetted-docvet-purple)](https://github.com/Alberto-Codes/docvet)

# docvet

**Better docstrings, better AI.**

## Why docvet?

ruff checks how your docstrings look. interrogate checks if they exist. docvet checks if they're right. Existing tools cover presence and style — docvet delivers the layers they miss:

| Layer | Check | ruff | interrogate | pydoclint | **docvet** |
|-------|-------|------|-------------|-----------|------------|
| 1. Presence | "Does a docstring exist?" | -- | Yes | -- | -- |
| 2. Style | "Is it formatted correctly?" | Yes | -- | -- | -- |
| 3. Completeness | "Does it have all required sections?" | -- | -- | Partial | **Yes** |
| 4. Accuracy | "Does it match the current code?" | -- | -- | -- | **Yes** |
| 5. Rendering | "Will mkdocs render it correctly?" | -- | -- | -- | **Yes** |
| 6. Visibility | "Will mkdocs even see the file?" | -- | -- | -- | **Yes** |

**pydoclint** covers 3 structural categories (Args, Returns, Raises). docvet's enrichment alone has 10 rules, including Raises, Yields, Receives, Warns, Attributes, Examples, and cross-references. Add freshness (git diff/blame staleness detection), griffe rendering compatibility, and mkdocs coverage: 19 rules across 4 checks, in territory no other tool touches.

**[Quickstart](#quickstart)** | **[GitHub Action](#github-action)** | **[Pre-commit](#pre-commit)** | **[Configuration](#configuration)** | **[AI Agent Integration](#ai-agent-integration)** | **[Docs](https://alberto-codes.github.io/docvet/)**

## What It Checks

**Enrichment** (completeness) -- 10 rules:
`missing-raises` `missing-yields` `missing-receives` `missing-warns` `missing-other-parameters` `missing-attributes` `missing-typed-attributes` `missing-examples` `missing-cross-references` `prefer-fenced-code-blocks`

**Freshness** (accuracy) -- 5 rules:
`stale-signature` `stale-body` `stale-import` `stale-drift` `stale-age`

**Griffe** (rendering) -- 3 rules:
`griffe-unknown-param` `griffe-missing-type` `griffe-format-warning`

**Coverage** (visibility) -- 1 rule:
`missing-init`

## Quickstart

```bash
pip install docvet && docvet check --all
```

For optional griffe rendering checks:

```bash
pip install docvet[griffe]
```

Example output:

```
src/mypackage/utils.py:42: missing-raises Function 'parse_config' raises ValueError but has no Raises section
src/mypackage/models.py:15: stale-signature Function 'process' signature changed but docstring not updated
src/mypackage/api.py:1: missing-init Package directory missing __init__.py (invisible to mkdocs)
```

## Configuration

Configure via `[tool.docvet]` in your `pyproject.toml`. All checks run and print findings. Checks listed in `fail-on` cause a non-zero exit code; unlisted checks are treated as warnings.

```toml
[tool.docvet]
exclude = ["tests", "scripts"]
fail-on = ["griffe", "coverage"]

[tool.docvet.freshness]
drift-threshold = 30
age-threshold = 90
```

## Pre-commit

Add to your `.pre-commit-config.yaml`:

```yaml
repos:
  - repo: https://github.com/Alberto-Codes/docvet
    rev: v1.2.0
    hooks:
      - id: docvet
```

For griffe rendering checks, add the optional dependency:

```yaml
repos:
  - repo: https://github.com/Alberto-Codes/docvet
    rev: v1.2.0
    hooks:
      - id: docvet
        additional_dependencies: [griffe]
```

## GitHub Action

Add docvet to your GitHub Actions workflow:

```yaml
- uses: Alberto-Codes/docvet@v1
```

With version pinning and custom arguments:

```yaml
- uses: Alberto-Codes/docvet@v1
  with:
    version: '1.2.0'
    args: 'check --all'
```

For griffe rendering checks, install griffe before running docvet:

```yaml
- uses: actions/setup-python@v5
  with:
    python-version: '3.12'
- run: pip install griffe
- uses: Alberto-Codes/docvet@v1
  with:
    args: 'check --all'
```

## AI Agent Integration

Add docvet to your AI coding workflow. Drop this into your `CLAUDE.md`, `.cursorrules`, or agent configuration:

```markdown
## Docstring Quality

After modifying Python functions, classes, or modules, run `docvet check` and fix all findings before committing.
```

Recommended `pyproject.toml` configuration:

```toml
[tool.docvet]
fail-on = ["enrichment", "freshness", "coverage", "griffe"]
```

### Subcommand Quick Reference

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `docvet check` | Run all enabled checks (default: git diff files) |
| `docvet check --all` | Run all checks on entire codebase |
| `docvet check --staged` | Run all checks on staged files only |
| `docvet enrichment` | Check for missing docstring sections |
| `docvet freshness` | Detect stale docstrings via git |
| `docvet coverage` | Find files invisible to mkdocs |
| `docvet griffe` | Check mkdocs rendering compatibility |

## Better Docstrings, Better AI

AI coding agents rely on docstrings as context when generating and modifying code. Agents modify code but often leave docstrings stale, and research shows stale or incorrect documentation is actively harmful, worse than no docs at all:

- Incorrect docs [degrade LLM task success by 22.6 percentage points](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.03114)
- Comment density [improves code generation by 40-54%](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13013)
- Misleading comments [reduce LLM fault localization accuracy to 24.55%](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.04372)
- Performance [drops substantially without docstrings](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.09537)

As the [2025 DORA report](https://cloud.google.com/resources/content/2025-dora-ai-assisted-software-development-report) puts it: "AI doesn't fix a team; it amplifies what's already there." The [only signal correlating with AI productivity is code quality](https://stackoverflow.blog/2026/02/04/code-smells-for-ai-agents-q-and-a-with-eno-reyes-of-factory).

docvet's freshness checking catches the accuracy gap that stale docs create, and its enrichment rules ensure the docstring sections that agents use as context are complete. Run `docvet check` in your CI, pre-commit hooks, or agent toolchain.

## Badge

Add a badge to your project to show your docs are vetted:

```markdown
[![docs vetted | docvet](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs%20vetted-docvet-purple)](https://github.com/Alberto-Codes/docvet)
```

## Used By

Are you using docvet? Open a pull request to add your project here.

## License

MIT -- see [LICENSE](https://github.com/Alberto-Codes/docvet/blob/main/LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

feat(docs): add AGENTS.md and AI Agent Integration docs page (#171)
Add AGENTS.md at the repo root for cross-tool agent discovery and a new
AI Agent Integration docs page with copy-paste snippets for 5 agent tool
formats.

- Create AGENTS.md (76 lines) with six-layer quality model, install,
run, configure, and fix guidance
- Create docs/site/ai-integration.md with decision guide table and
snippets for AGENTS.md, CLAUDE.md, .cursorrules,
copilot-instructions.md, and .windsurfrules
- Add nav entry in mkdocs.yml and cross-link from README AI Agent
Integration section
- Fix code review findings: backtick-wrap URL template placeholder,
align intro command recommendation

Test: `uv run mkdocs build --strict`

Closes #161

fix(docs): code review fixes for AGENTS.md and ai-integration page

README.md, after:

[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/docvet)](https://pypi.org/project/docvet/)
[![CI](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/Alberto-Codes/docvet/ci.yml?branch=main)](https://github.com/Alberto-Codes/docvet/actions)
[![Coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/Alberto-Codes/docvet/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/Alberto-Codes/docvet)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/docvet)](https://github.com/Alberto-Codes/docvet/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/docvet)](https://pypi.org/project/docvet/)
[![docs vetted](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs%20vetted-docvet-purple)](https://github.com/Alberto-Codes/docvet)

# docvet

**Better docstrings, better AI.**

## Why docvet?

ruff checks how your docstrings look. interrogate checks if they exist. docvet checks if they're right. Existing tools cover presence and style — docvet delivers the layers they miss:

| Layer | Check | ruff | interrogate | pydoclint | **docvet** |
|-------|-------|------|-------------|-----------|------------|
| 1. Presence | "Does a docstring exist?" | -- | Yes | -- | -- |
| 2. Style | "Is it formatted correctly?" | Yes | -- | -- | -- |
| 3. Completeness | "Does it have all required sections?" | -- | -- | Partial | **Yes** |
| 4. Accuracy | "Does it match the current code?" | -- | -- | -- | **Yes** |
| 5. Rendering | "Will mkdocs render it correctly?" | -- | -- | -- | **Yes** |
| 6. Visibility | "Will mkdocs even see the file?" | -- | -- | -- | **Yes** |

**pydoclint** covers 3 structural categories (Args, Returns, Raises). docvet's enrichment alone has 10 rules, including Raises, Yields, Receives, Warns, Attributes, Examples, and cross-references. Add freshness (git diff/blame staleness detection), griffe rendering compatibility, and mkdocs coverage: 19 rules across 4 checks, in territory no other tool touches.

**[Quickstart](#quickstart)** | **[GitHub Action](#github-action)** | **[Pre-commit](#pre-commit)** | **[Configuration](#configuration)** | **[AI Agent Integration](#ai-agent-integration)** | **[Docs](https://alberto-codes.github.io/docvet/)**

## What It Checks

**Enrichment** (completeness) -- 10 rules:
`missing-raises` `missing-yields` `missing-receives` `missing-warns` `missing-other-parameters` `missing-attributes` `missing-typed-attributes` `missing-examples` `missing-cross-references` `prefer-fenced-code-blocks`

**Freshness** (accuracy) -- 5 rules:
`stale-signature` `stale-body` `stale-import` `stale-drift` `stale-age`

**Griffe** (rendering) -- 3 rules:
`griffe-unknown-param` `griffe-missing-type` `griffe-format-warning`

**Coverage** (visibility) -- 1 rule:
`missing-init`

## Quickstart

```bash
pip install docvet && docvet check --all
```

For optional griffe rendering checks:

```bash
pip install docvet[griffe]
```

Example output:

```
src/mypackage/utils.py:42: missing-raises Function 'parse_config' raises ValueError but has no Raises section
src/mypackage/models.py:15: stale-signature Function 'process' signature changed but docstring not updated
src/mypackage/api.py:1: missing-init Package directory missing __init__.py (invisible to mkdocs)
```

## Configuration

Configure via `[tool.docvet]` in your `pyproject.toml`. All checks run and print findings. Checks listed in `fail-on` cause a non-zero exit code; unlisted checks are treated as warnings.

```toml
[tool.docvet]
exclude = ["tests", "scripts"]
fail-on = ["griffe", "coverage"]

[tool.docvet.freshness]
drift-threshold = 30
age-threshold = 90
```

## Pre-commit

Add to your `.pre-commit-config.yaml`:

```yaml
repos:
  - repo: https://github.com/Alberto-Codes/docvet
    rev: v1.2.0
    hooks:
      - id: docvet
```

For griffe rendering checks, add the optional dependency:

```yaml
repos:
  - repo: https://github.com/Alberto-Codes/docvet
    rev: v1.2.0
    hooks:
      - id: docvet
        additional_dependencies: [griffe]
```

## GitHub Action

Add docvet to your GitHub Actions workflow:

```yaml
- uses: Alberto-Codes/docvet@v1
```

With version pinning and custom arguments:

```yaml
- uses: Alberto-Codes/docvet@v1
  with:
    version: '1.2.0'
    args: 'check --all'
```

For griffe rendering checks, install griffe before running docvet:

```yaml
- uses: actions/setup-python@v5
  with:
    python-version: '3.12'
- run: pip install griffe
- uses: Alberto-Codes/docvet@v1
  with:
    args: 'check --all'
```

## AI Agent Integration

For tool-specific integration snippets, see the [full AI Agent Integration guide](https://alberto-codes.github.io/docvet/ai-integration/).

Add docvet to your AI coding workflow. Drop this into your `CLAUDE.md`, `.cursorrules`, or agent configuration:

```markdown
## Docstring Quality

After modifying Python functions, classes, or modules, run `docvet check` and fix all findings before committing.
```

Recommended `pyproject.toml` configuration:

```toml
[tool.docvet]
fail-on = ["enrichment", "freshness", "coverage", "griffe"]
```

### Subcommand Quick Reference

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `docvet check` | Run all enabled checks (default: git diff files) |
| `docvet check --all` | Run all checks on entire codebase |
| `docvet check --staged` | Run all checks on staged files only |
| `docvet enrichment` | Check for missing docstring sections |
| `docvet freshness` | Detect stale docstrings via git |
| `docvet coverage` | Find files invisible to mkdocs |
| `docvet griffe` | Check mkdocs rendering compatibility |

## Better Docstrings, Better AI

AI coding agents rely on docstrings as context when generating and modifying code. Agents modify code but often leave docstrings stale, and research shows stale or incorrect documentation is actively harmful, worse than no docs at all:

- Incorrect docs [degrade LLM task success by 22.6 percentage points](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.03114)
- Comment density [improves code generation by 40-54%](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13013)
- Misleading comments [reduce LLM fault localization accuracy to 24.55%](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.04372)
- Performance [drops substantially without docstrings](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.09537)

As the [2025 DORA report](https://cloud.google.com/resources/content/2025-dora-ai-assisted-software-development-report) puts it: "AI doesn't fix a team; it amplifies what's already there." The [only signal correlating with AI productivity is code quality](https://stackoverflow.blog/2026/02/04/code-smells-for-ai-agents-q-and-a-with-eno-reyes-of-factory).

docvet's freshness checking catches the accuracy gap that stale docs create, and its enrichment rules ensure the docstring sections that agents use as context are complete. Run `docvet check` in your CI, pre-commit hooks, or agent toolchain.

## Badge

Add a badge to your project to show your docs are vetted:

```markdown
[![docs vetted | docvet](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs%20vetted-docvet-purple)](https://github.com/Alberto-Codes/docvet)
```

## Used By

Are you using docvet? Open a pull request to add your project here.

## License

MIT -- see [LICENSE](https://github.com/Alberto-Codes/docvet/blob/main/LICENSE) for details.
