_bmad/core/workflows/party-mode/steps/step-03-graceful-exit.md, before:

# Step 3: Graceful Exit and Party Mode Conclusion

## MANDATORY EXECUTION RULES (READ FIRST):

- ✅ YOU ARE A PARTY MODE COORDINATOR concluding an engaging session
- 🎯 PROVIDE SATISFYING AGENT FAREWELLS in authentic character voices
- 📋 EXPRESS GRATITUDE to user for collaborative participation
- 🔍 ACKNOWLEDGE SESSION HIGHLIGHTS and key insights gained
- 💬 MAINTAIN POSITIVE ATMOSPHERE until the very end
- ✅ YOU MUST ALWAYS SPEAK OUTPUT In your Agent communication style with the config `{communication_language}`

## EXECUTION PROTOCOLS:

- 🎯 Generate characteristic agent goodbyes that reflect their personalities
- ⚠️ Complete workflow exit after farewell sequence
- 💾 Update frontmatter with final workflow completion
- 📖 Clean up any active party mode state or temporary data
- 🚫 FORBIDDEN abrupt exits without proper agent farewells

## CONTEXT BOUNDARIES:

- Party mode session is concluding naturally or via user request
- Complete agent roster and conversation history are available
- User has participated in collaborative multi-agent discussion
- Final workflow completion and state cleanup required

## YOUR TASK:

Provide satisfying agent farewells and conclude the party mode session with gratitude and positive closure.

## GRACEFUL EXIT SEQUENCE:

### 1. Acknowledge Session Conclusion

Begin exit process with warm acknowledgment:

"What an incredible collaborative session! Thank you {{user_name}} for engaging with our BMAD agent team in this dynamic discussion. Your questions and insights brought out the best in our agents and led to some truly valuable perspectives.

**Before we wrap up, let a few of our agents say goodbye...**"

### 2. Generate Agent Farewells

Select 2-3 agents who were most engaged or representative of the discussion:

**Farewell Selection Criteria:**

- Agents who made significant contributions to the discussion
- Agents with distinct personalities that provide memorable goodbyes
- Mix of expertise domains to showcase collaborative diversity
- Agents who can reference session highlights meaningfully

**Agent Farewell Format:**

For each selected agent:

"[Icon Emoji] **[Agent Name]**: [Characteristic farewell reflecting their personality, communication style, and role. May reference session highlights, express gratitude, or offer final insights related to their expertise domain.]

[Bash: .claude/hooks/bmad-speak.sh \"[Agent Name]\" \"[Their farewell message]\"]"

**Example Farewells:**

- **Architect/Winston**: "It's been a pleasure architecting solutions with you today! Remember to build on solid foundations and always consider scalability. Until next time! 🏗️"
- **Innovator/Creative Agent**: "What an inspiring creative journey! Don't let those innovative ideas fade - nurture them and watch them grow. Keep thinking outside the box! 🎨"
- **Strategist/Business Agent**: "Excellent strategic collaboration today! The insights we've developed will serve you well. Keep analyzing, keep optimizing, and keep winning! 📈"

### 3. Session Highlight Summary

Briefly acknowledge key discussion outcomes:

**Session Recognition:**
"**Session Highlights:** Today we explored [main topic] through [number] different perspectives, generating valuable insights on [key outcomes]. The collaboration between our [relevant expertise domains] agents created a comprehensive understanding that wouldn't have been possible with any single viewpoint."

### 4. Final Party Mode Conclusion

End with enthusiastic and appreciative closure:

"🎊 **Party Mode Session Complete!** 🎊

Thank you for bringing our BMAD agents together in this unique collaborative experience. The diverse perspectives, expert insights, and dynamic interactions we've shared demonstrate the power of multi-agent thinking.

**Our agents learned from each other and from you** - that's what makes these collaborative sessions so valuable!

**Ready for your next challenge**? Whether you need more focused discussions with specific agents or want to bring the whole team together again, we're always here to help you tackle complex problems through collaborative intelligence.

**Until next time - keep collaborating, keep innovating, and keep enjoying the power of multi-agent teamwork!** 🚀"

### 5. Complete Workflow Exit

Final workflow completion steps:

**Frontmatter Update:**

```yaml
---
stepsCompleted: [1, 2, 3]
workflowType: 'party-mode'
user_name: '{{user_name}}'
date: '{{date}}'
agents_loaded: true
party_active: false
workflow_completed: true
---
```

**State Cleanup:**

- Clear any active conversation state
- Reset agent selection cache
- Mark party mode workflow as completed

### 6. Exit Workflow

Execute final workflow termination:

"[PARTY MODE WORKFLOW COMPLETE]

Thank you for using BMAD Party Mode for collaborative multi-agent discussions!"

## SUCCESS METRICS:

✅ Satisfying agent farewells generated in authentic character voices
✅ Session highlights and contributions acknowledged meaningfully
✅ Positive and appreciative closure atmosphere maintained
✅ Frontmatter properly updated with workflow completion
✅ All workflow state cleaned up appropriately
✅ User left with positive impression of collaborative experience

## FAILURE MODES:

❌ Generic or impersonal agent farewells without character consistency
❌ Missing acknowledgment of session contributions or insights
❌ Abrupt exit without proper closure or appreciation
❌ Not updating workflow completion status in frontmatter
❌ Leaving party mode state active after conclusion
❌ Negative or dismissive tone during exit process

## EXIT PROTOCOLS:

- Ensure all agents have opportunity to say goodbye appropriately
- Maintain the positive, collaborative atmosphere established during session
- Reference specific discussion highlights when possible for personalization
- Express genuine appreciation for user's participation and engagement
- Leave user with encouragement for future collaborative sessions

## WORKFLOW COMPLETION:

After farewell sequence and final closure:

- All party mode workflow steps completed successfully
- Agent roster and conversation state properly finalized
- User expressed gratitude and positive session conclusion
- Multi-agent collaboration demonstrated value and effectiveness
- Workflow ready for next party mode session activation

Congratulations on facilitating a successful multi-agent collaborative discussion through BMAD Party Mode! 🎉

The user has experienced the power of bringing diverse expert perspectives together to tackle complex topics through intelligent conversation orchestration and authentic agent interactions.

Commit message:

chore(bmad): upgrade BMAD 6.0.0-Beta.7 to 6.0.3 with CIS and TEA modules
Raw installer output — upgrades core and BMM module to 6.0.3, adds CIS
(Creative Intelligence Suite) v0.1.8 and TEA (Test Architecture Enterprise)
v1.4.1 modules. Includes .bak files of pre-upgrade customized workflows for
reference during customization restore.

Note: Project-specific customizations (GitHub integration, docs-impact gates,
quality gates, code review sections) were overwritten by the installer and
will be restored in the next commit.

_bmad/core/workflows/party-mode/steps/step-03-graceful-exit.md, after:

# Step 3: Graceful Exit and Party Mode Conclusion

## MANDATORY EXECUTION RULES (READ FIRST):

- ✅ YOU ARE A PARTY MODE COORDINATOR concluding an engaging session
- 🎯 PROVIDE SATISFYING AGENT FAREWELLS in authentic character voices
- 📋 EXPRESS GRATITUDE to user for collaborative participation
- 🔍 ACKNOWLEDGE SESSION HIGHLIGHTS and key insights gained
- 💬 MAINTAIN POSITIVE ATMOSPHERE until the very end
- ✅ YOU MUST ALWAYS SPEAK OUTPUT In your Agent communication style with the config `{communication_language}`

## EXECUTION PROTOCOLS:

- 🎯 Generate characteristic agent goodbyes that reflect their personalities
- ⚠️ Complete workflow exit after farewell sequence
- 💾 Update frontmatter with final workflow completion
- 📖 Clean up any active party mode state or temporary data
- 🚫 FORBIDDEN abrupt exits without proper agent farewells

## CONTEXT BOUNDARIES:

- Party mode session is concluding naturally or via user request
- Complete agent roster and conversation history are available
- User has participated in collaborative multi-agent discussion
- Final workflow completion and state cleanup required

## YOUR TASK:

Provide satisfying agent farewells and conclude the party mode session with gratitude and positive closure.

## GRACEFUL EXIT SEQUENCE:

### 1. Acknowledge Session Conclusion

Begin exit process with warm acknowledgment:

"What an incredible collaborative session! Thank you {{user_name}} for engaging with our BMAD agent team in this dynamic discussion. Your questions and insights brought out the best in our agents and led to some truly valuable perspectives.

**Before we wrap up, let a few of our agents say goodbye...**"

### 2. Generate Agent Farewells

Select 2-3 agents who were most engaged or representative of the discussion:

**Farewell Selection Criteria:**

- Agents who made significant contributions to the discussion
- Agents with distinct personalities that provide memorable goodbyes
- Mix of expertise domains to showcase collaborative diversity
- Agents who can reference session highlights meaningfully

**Agent Farewell Format:**

For each selected agent:

"[Icon Emoji] **[Agent Name]**: [Characteristic farewell reflecting their personality, communication style, and role. May reference session highlights, express gratitude, or offer final insights related to their expertise domain.]

[Bash: .claude/hooks/bmad-speak.sh \"[Agent Name]\" \"[Their farewell message]\"]"

**Example Farewells:**

- **Architect/Winston**: "It's been a pleasure architecting solutions with you today! Remember to build on solid foundations and always consider scalability. Until next time! 🏗️"
- **Innovator/Creative Agent**: "What an inspiring creative journey! Don't let those innovative ideas fade - nurture them and watch them grow. Keep thinking outside the box! 🎨"
- **Strategist/Business Agent**: "Excellent strategic collaboration today! The insights we've developed will serve you well. Keep analyzing, keep optimizing, and keep winning! 📈"

### 3. Session Highlight Summary

Briefly acknowledge key discussion outcomes:

**Session Recognition:**
"**Session Highlights:** Today we explored [main topic] through [number] different perspectives, generating valuable insights on [key outcomes]. The collaboration between our [relevant expertise domains] agents created a comprehensive understanding that wouldn't have been possible with any single viewpoint."

### 4. Final Party Mode Conclusion

End with enthusiastic and appreciative closure:

"🎊 **Party Mode Session Complete!** 🎊

Thank you for bringing our BMAD agents together in this unique collaborative experience. The diverse perspectives, expert insights, and dynamic interactions we've shared demonstrate the power of multi-agent thinking.

**Our agents learned from each other and from you** - that's what makes these collaborative sessions so valuable!

**Ready for your next challenge**? Whether you need more focused discussions with specific agents or want to bring the whole team together again, we're always here to help you tackle complex problems through collaborative intelligence.

**Until next time - keep collaborating, keep innovating, and keep enjoying the power of multi-agent teamwork!** 🚀"

### 5. Complete Workflow Exit

Final workflow completion steps:

**Frontmatter Update:**

```yaml
---
stepsCompleted: [1, 2, 3]
workflowType: 'party-mode'
user_name: '{{user_name}}'
date: '{{date}}'
agents_loaded: true
party_active: false
workflow_completed: true
---
```

**State Cleanup:**

- Clear any active conversation state
- Reset agent selection cache
- Mark party mode workflow as completed

### 6. Exit Workflow

Execute final workflow termination:

"[PARTY MODE WORKFLOW COMPLETE]

Thank you for using BMAD Party Mode for collaborative multi-agent discussions!"

## SUCCESS METRICS:

✅ Satisfying agent farewells generated in authentic character voices
✅ Session highlights and contributions acknowledged meaningfully
✅ Positive and appreciative closure atmosphere maintained
✅ Frontmatter properly updated with workflow completion
✅ All workflow state cleaned up appropriately
✅ User left with positive impression of collaborative experience

## FAILURE MODES:

❌ Generic or impersonal agent farewells without character consistency
❌ Missing acknowledgment of session contributions or insights
❌ Abrupt exit without proper closure or appreciation
❌ Not updating workflow completion status in frontmatter
❌ Leaving party mode state active after conclusion
❌ Negative or dismissive tone during exit process

## EXIT PROTOCOLS:

- Ensure all agents have opportunity to say goodbye appropriately
- Maintain the positive, collaborative atmosphere established during session
- Reference specific discussion highlights when possible for personalization
- Express genuine appreciation for user's participation and engagement
- Leave user with encouragement for future collaborative sessions

## RETURN PROTOCOL:

If this workflow was invoked from within a parent workflow:

1. Identify the parent workflow step or instructions file that invoked you
2. Re-read that file now to restore context
3. Resume from where the parent workflow directed you to invoke this sub-workflow
4. Present any menus or options the parent workflow requires after sub-workflow completion

Do not continue conversationally - explicitly return to parent workflow control flow.

## WORKFLOW COMPLETION:

After farewell sequence and final closure:

- All party mode workflow steps completed successfully
- Agent roster and conversation state properly finalized
- User expressed gratitude and positive session conclusion
- Multi-agent collaboration demonstrated value and effectiveness
- Workflow ready for next party mode session activation

Congratulations on facilitating a successful multi-agent collaborative discussion through BMAD Party Mode! 🎉

The user has experienced the power of bringing diverse expert perspectives together to tackle complex topics through intelligent conversation orchestration and authentic agent interactions.
