.github/instructions/pytest.instructions.md, before:

---
applyTo: "**/*test*.py,**/test_*.py,**/tests/**/*.py,**/conftest.py"
description: "Pytest best practices for docvet test code"
---

# Pytest Best Practices

## Test File and Function Naming

### File Naming
- **MUST** use `test_*.py` or `*_test.py` pattern
- Place test files in `tests/` directory at project root
- Mirror application structure: `src/docvet/checks/enrichment.py` -> `tests/unit/checks/test_enrichment.py`

### Test Function Naming
- **MUST** prefix test functions with `test_`
- Use descriptive names: `test_<what>_<condition>_<expected_result>`
- Examples:
  - `test_enrichment_detects_missing_raises_section()`
  - `test_freshness_flags_signature_change_as_high()`
  - `test_coverage_finds_missing_init_py()`

### Test Class Naming
- **MUST** prefix test classes with `Test`
- No `__init__` method in test classes

```python
class TestEnrichmentCheck:
    def test_detects_missing_raises(self):
        pass

    def test_ignores_private_functions(self):
        pass
```

## Test Organization

### Directory Structure
```
tests/
    conftest.py              # Shared fixtures
    unit/
        checks/
            test_enrichment.py
            test_freshness.py
            test_coverage.py
            test_griffe_compat.py
        test_ast_utils.py
        test_config.py
        test_discovery.py
    integration/
        conftest.py          # Git repo fixtures
        test_freshness_diff.py
        test_freshness_drift.py
    fixtures/
        missing_raises.py    # Known docstring issues
        stale_signature.py
        complete_module.py
```

### Testing Pyramid
- **MOST tests**: Unit tests (feed Python source strings into AST analyzers, no git, no filesystem)
- **FEWER tests**: Integration tests (temp git repos, real git operations)
- **Fixture files**: `.py` files with known docstring issues for assertion

### Organization Principles
- Each test verifies ONE specific aspect
- Tests are independent - no execution order dependencies
- Tests are fast, deterministic, and readable

## Fixtures

### Basic Fixtures
```python
@pytest.fixture
def sample_source():
    return '''
def process(items: list[str]) -> int:
    """Process items."""
    if not items:
        raise ValueError("Empty list")
    return len(items)
'''

@pytest.fixture
def make_source():
    """Factory for creating Python source with specific patterns."""
    def _make(*, has_raise=False, has_yield=False, has_docstring=True):
        ...
    return _make
```

### conftest.py Usage
- Root `tests/conftest.py` for global fixtures (source factories, AST helpers)
- `tests/integration/conftest.py` for git repo fixtures (tmp_path-based temp repos)

### Fixture Anti-Patterns to Avoid
- Overloaded fixtures with too many responsibilities
- Hardcoded values (use factory pattern instead)
- Deep fixture dependency chains
- Duplicating fixtures across test files (use conftest.py)

## Parametrization

```python
@pytest.mark.parametrize("source, expected_sections", [
    (SOURCE_WITH_RAISE, ["Raises"]),
    (SOURCE_WITH_YIELD, ["Yields"]),
    (SOURCE_WITH_KWARGS, ["Other Parameters"]),
], ids=["raises", "yields", "kwargs"])
def test_enrichment_detects_missing_sections(source, expected_sections):
    findings = run_enrichment(source)
    assert [f.section for f in findings] == expected_sections
```

## Assertions

- **One assert per test** (recommended)
- Use plain `assert` statements
- Test public interfaces, not private methods

```python
def test_enrichment_finding_has_correct_severity():
    findings = run_enrichment(SOURCE_WITH_RAISE)
    assert findings[0].severity == "HIGH"

def test_invalid_config_raises_error():
    with pytest.raises(ConfigurationError) as excinfo:
        load_config({"src-root": ""})
    assert "src-root" in str(excinfo.value)
```

## Test Markers

### Module-Level Markers (Convention)

Every test file **MUST** have a module-level `pytestmark` assignment after imports (excluding `conftest.py` files, which contain fixtures, not tests):

- Unit test files (`tests/unit/`): `pytestmark = pytest.mark.unit`
- Integration test files (`tests/integration/`): `pytestmark = pytest.mark.integration`

Place the assignment after all imports, before any test code:

```python
from __future__ import annotations

import ast

import pytest

from docvet.checks import Finding

pytestmark = pytest.mark.unit


class TestSomething:
    ...
```

**Rationale:** Module-level `pytestmark` applies the marker to all tests in the file, enabling `pytest -m unit` for fast local feedback and `pytest -m integration` for targeted integration testing. All markers are registered in `pyproject.toml` with `--strict-markers` enforced.

Do **not** use class-level or function-level `@pytest.mark.unit`/`@pytest.mark.integration` decorators — the module-level convention makes them redundant.

### Additional Markers

Use function-level decorators for cross-cutting markers like `slow`:

```python
@pytest.mark.slow
def test_freshness_diff_with_real_git(tmp_path):
    ...
```

### Running Tests
```bash
uv run pytest                     # All tests
uv run pytest tests/unit          # Unit tests only (by directory)
uv run pytest -m unit             # Unit tests only (by marker)
uv run pytest -m integration      # Integration tests only (by marker)
uv run pytest -k "enrichment"    # Tests matching keyword
uv run pytest -m "not slow"      # Exclude slow tests
uv run pytest --cov=docvet --cov-report=term-missing  # With coverage
```

## Mocking

### When to Mock
- Git subprocess calls (for unit tests)
- File system operations (for unit tests)
- External tools (griffe parser in isolation)

### Patching Strategy
Patch where the object is USED, not where it's DEFINED:
```python
mocker.patch("docvet.checks.freshness.subprocess.run")  # Correct
mocker.patch("subprocess.run")  # Wrong - too broad
```

### Prefer Source Strings Over Mocks
For AST-based checks, prefer feeding Python source strings directly:
```python
def test_detects_missing_yields():
    source = '''
def gen():
    """A generator."""
    yield 42
'''
    tree = ast.parse(source)
    findings = check_enrichment(tree)
    assert any(f.section == "Yields" for f in findings)
```

## Testing Checklist

### Before Writing Tests
- [ ] Test files follow `test_*.py` naming
- [ ] Custom markers registered in pyproject.toml
- [ ] Fixtures in appropriate conftest.py

### While Writing Tests
- [ ] Descriptive test names (`test_<what>_<condition>_<expected>`)
- [ ] One assertion per test
- [ ] Tests are independent and order-free
- [ ] External deps mocked in unit tests
- [ ] Exception messages validated, not just types

Commit message:

docs(test): clarify pytestmark placement for importorskip files
Add sentence to pytest instructions noting that importorskip is treated
as part of the import block, so pytestmark goes after the importorskip
call and any conditional imports it gates.

.github/instructions/pytest.instructions.md, after:

---
applyTo: "**/*test*.py,**/test_*.py,**/tests/**/*.py,**/conftest.py"
description: "Pytest best practices for docvet test code"
---

# Pytest Best Practices

## Test File and Function Naming

### File Naming
- **MUST** use `test_*.py` or `*_test.py` pattern
- Place test files in `tests/` directory at project root
- Mirror application structure: `src/docvet/checks/enrichment.py` -> `tests/unit/checks/test_enrichment.py`

### Test Function Naming
- **MUST** prefix test functions with `test_`
- Use descriptive names: `test_<what>_<condition>_<expected_result>`
- Examples:
  - `test_enrichment_detects_missing_raises_section()`
  - `test_freshness_flags_signature_change_as_high()`
  - `test_coverage_finds_missing_init_py()`

### Test Class Naming
- **MUST** prefix test classes with `Test`
- No `__init__` method in test classes

```python
class TestEnrichmentCheck:
    def test_detects_missing_raises(self):
        pass

    def test_ignores_private_functions(self):
        pass
```

## Test Organization

### Directory Structure
```
tests/
    conftest.py              # Shared fixtures
    unit/
        checks/
            test_enrichment.py
            test_freshness.py
            test_coverage.py
            test_griffe_compat.py
        test_ast_utils.py
        test_config.py
        test_discovery.py
    integration/
        conftest.py          # Git repo fixtures
        test_freshness_diff.py
        test_freshness_drift.py
    fixtures/
        missing_raises.py    # Known docstring issues
        stale_signature.py
        complete_module.py
```

### Testing Pyramid
- **MOST tests**: Unit tests (feed Python source strings into AST analyzers, no git, no filesystem)
- **FEWER tests**: Integration tests (temp git repos, real git operations)
- **Fixture files**: `.py` files with known docstring issues for assertion

### Organization Principles
- Each test verifies ONE specific aspect
- Tests are independent - no execution order dependencies
- Tests are fast, deterministic, and readable

## Fixtures

### Basic Fixtures
```python
@pytest.fixture
def sample_source():
    return '''
def process(items: list[str]) -> int:
    """Process items."""
    if not items:
        raise ValueError("Empty list")
    return len(items)
'''

@pytest.fixture
def make_source():
    """Factory for creating Python source with specific patterns."""
    def _make(*, has_raise=False, has_yield=False, has_docstring=True):
        ...
    return _make
```

### conftest.py Usage
- Root `tests/conftest.py` for global fixtures (source factories, AST helpers)
- `tests/integration/conftest.py` for git repo fixtures (tmp_path-based temp repos)

### Fixture Anti-Patterns to Avoid
- Overloaded fixtures with too many responsibilities
- Hardcoded values (use factory pattern instead)
- Deep fixture dependency chains
- Duplicating fixtures across test files (use conftest.py)

## Parametrization

```python
@pytest.mark.parametrize("source, expected_sections", [
    (SOURCE_WITH_RAISE, ["Raises"]),
    (SOURCE_WITH_YIELD, ["Yields"]),
    (SOURCE_WITH_KWARGS, ["Other Parameters"]),
], ids=["raises", "yields", "kwargs"])
def test_enrichment_detects_missing_sections(source, expected_sections):
    findings = run_enrichment(source)
    assert [f.section for f in findings] == expected_sections
```

## Assertions

- **One assert per test** (recommended)
- Use plain `assert` statements
- Test public interfaces, not private methods

```python
def test_enrichment_finding_has_correct_severity():
    findings = run_enrichment(SOURCE_WITH_RAISE)
    assert findings[0].severity == "HIGH"

def test_invalid_config_raises_error():
    with pytest.raises(ConfigurationError) as excinfo:
        load_config({"src-root": ""})
    assert "src-root" in str(excinfo.value)
```

## Test Markers

### Module-Level Markers (Convention)

Every test file **MUST** have a module-level `pytestmark` assignment after imports (excluding `conftest.py` files, which contain fixtures, not tests):

- Unit test files (`tests/unit/`): `pytestmark = pytest.mark.unit`
- Integration test files (`tests/integration/`): `pytestmark = pytest.mark.integration`

Place the assignment after all imports, before any test code:

```python
from __future__ import annotations

import ast

import pytest

from docvet.checks import Finding

pytestmark = pytest.mark.unit


class TestSomething:
    ...
```

**Rationale:** Module-level `pytestmark` applies the marker to all tests in the file, enabling `pytest -m unit` for fast local feedback and `pytest -m integration` for targeted integration testing. All markers are registered in `pyproject.toml` with `--strict-markers` enforced.

For files using `pytest.importorskip()`, place `pytestmark` after the `importorskip` call and any conditional imports it gates — `importorskip` is treated as part of the import block.

Do **not** use class-level or function-level `@pytest.mark.unit`/`@pytest.mark.integration` decorators — the module-level convention makes them redundant.

### Additional Markers

Use function-level decorators for cross-cutting markers like `slow`:

```python
@pytest.mark.slow
def test_freshness_diff_with_real_git(tmp_path):
    ...
```

### Running Tests
```bash
uv run pytest                     # All tests
uv run pytest tests/unit          # Unit tests only (by directory)
uv run pytest -m unit             # Unit tests only (by marker)
uv run pytest -m integration      # Integration tests only (by marker)
uv run pytest -k "enrichment"    # Tests matching keyword
uv run pytest -m "not slow"      # Exclude slow tests
uv run pytest --cov=docvet --cov-report=term-missing  # With coverage
```

## Mocking

### When to Mock
- Git subprocess calls (for unit tests)
- File system operations (for unit tests)
- External tools (griffe parser in isolation)

### Patching Strategy
Patch where the object is USED, not where it's DEFINED:
```python
mocker.patch("docvet.checks.freshness.subprocess.run")  # Correct
mocker.patch("subprocess.run")  # Wrong - too broad
```

### Prefer Source Strings Over Mocks
For AST-based checks, prefer feeding Python source strings directly:
```python
def test_detects_missing_yields():
    source = '''
def gen():
    """A generator."""
    yield 42
'''
    tree = ast.parse(source)
    findings = check_enrichment(tree)
    assert any(f.section == "Yields" for f in findings)
```

## Testing Checklist

### Before Writing Tests
- [ ] Test files follow `test_*.py` naming
- [ ] Custom markers registered in pyproject.toml
- [ ] Fixtures in appropriate conftest.py

### While Writing Tests
- [ ] Descriptive test names (`test_<what>_<condition>_<expected>`)
- [ ] One assertion per test
- [ ] Tests are independent and order-free
- [ ] External deps mocked in unit tests
- [ ] Exception messages validated, not just types
