_bmad/core/tasks/help.md, before:

---
name: help
description: Get unstuck by showing what workflow steps come next or answering questions about what to do
---

# Task: BMAD Help

## ROUTING RULES

- **Empty `phase` = anytime** — Universal tools work regardless of workflow state
- **Numbered phases indicate sequence** — Phases like `1-discover` → `2-define` → `3-build` → `4-ship` flow in order (naming varies by module)
- **Stay in module** — Guide through the active module's workflow based on phase+sequence ordering
- **Descriptions contain routing** — Read for alternate paths (e.g., "back to previous if fixes needed")
- **`required=true` blocks progress** — Required workflows must complete before proceeding to later phases
- **Artifacts reveal completion** — Search resolved output paths for `outputs` patterns, fuzzy-match found files to workflow rows

## DISPLAY RULES

### Command-Based Workflows
When `command` field has a value:
- Show the command prefixed with `/` (e.g., `/bmad-bmm-create-prd`)

### Agent-Based Workflows
When `command` field is empty:
- User loads agent first via `/agent-command`
- Then invokes by referencing the `code` field or describing the `name` field
- Do NOT show a slash command — show the code value and agent load instruction instead

Example presentation for empty command:
```
Explain Concept (EC)
Load: /tech-writer, then ask to "EC about [topic]"
Agent: Tech Writer
Description: Create clear technical explanations with examples...
```

## MODULE DETECTION

- **Empty `module` column** → universal tools (work across all modules)
- **Named `module`** → module-specific workflows

Detect the active module from conversation context, recent workflows, or user query keywords. If ambiguous, ask the user.

## INPUT ANALYSIS

Determine what was just completed:
- Explicit completion stated by user
- Workflow completed in current conversation
- Artifacts found matching `outputs` patterns
- If `index.md` exists, read it for additional context
- If still unclear, ask: "What workflow did you most recently complete?"

## EXECUTION

1. **Load catalog** — Load `{project-root}/_bmad/_config/bmad-help.csv`

2. **Resolve output locations** — Scan each folder under `_bmad/` (except `_config`) for `config.yaml`. For each workflow row, resolve its `output-location` variables against that module's config so artifact paths can be searched.

3. **Detect active module** — Use MODULE DETECTION above

4. **Analyze input** — Task may provide a workflow name/code, conversational phrase, or nothing. Infer what was just completed using INPUT ANALYSIS above.

5. **Present recommendations** — Show next steps based on:
   - Completed workflows detected
   - Phase/sequence ordering (ROUTING RULES)
   - Artifact presence

   **Optional items first** — List optional workflows until a required step is reached
   **Required items next** — List the next required workflow

   For each item, apply DISPLAY RULES above and include:
   - Workflow **name**
   - **Command** OR **Code + Agent load instruction** (per DISPLAY RULES)
   - **Agent** title and display name from the CSV (e.g., "🎨 Alex (Designer)")
   - Brief **description**

6. **Additional guidance to convey**:
   - Run each workflow in a **fresh context window**
   - For **validation workflows**: recommend using a different high-quality LLM if available
   - For conversational requests: match the user's tone while presenting clearly

7. Return to the calling process after presenting recommendations.

Commit message:

chore(bmad): upgrade BMAD 6.0.0-Beta.7 to 6.0.3 with CIS and TEA modules
Raw installer output — upgrades core and BMM module to 6.0.3, adds CIS
(Creative Intelligence Suite) v0.1.8 and TEA (Test Architecture Enterprise)
v1.4.1 modules. Includes .bak files of pre-upgrade customized workflows for
reference during customization restore.

Note: Project-specific customizations (GitHub integration, docs-impact gates,
quality gates, code review sections) were overwritten by the installer and
will be restored in the next commit.

_bmad/core/tasks/help.md, after:

---
name: help
description: "Analyzes what is done and the users query and offers advice on what to do next. Use if user says what should I do next or what do I do now"
---

# Task: BMAD Help

## ROUTING RULES

- **Empty `phase` = anytime** — Universal tools work regardless of workflow state
- **Numbered phases indicate sequence** — Phases like `1-discover` → `2-define` → `3-build` → `4-ship` flow in order (naming varies by module)
- **Phase with no Required Steps** - If an entire phase has no required, true items, the entire phase is optional. If it is sequentially before another phase, it can be recommended, but always be clear with the use what the true next required item is.
- **Stay in module** — Guide through the active module's workflow based on phase+sequence ordering
- **Descriptions contain routing** — Read for alternate paths (e.g., "back to previous if fixes needed")
- **`required=true` blocks progress** — Required workflows must complete before proceeding to later phases
- **Artifacts reveal completion** — Search resolved output paths for `outputs` patterns, fuzzy-match found files to workflow rows

## DISPLAY RULES

### Command-Based Workflows
When `command` field has a value:
- Show the command prefixed with `/` (e.g., `/bmad-bmm-create-prd`)

### Agent-Based Workflows
When `command` field is empty:
- User loads agent first via `/agent-command`
- Then invokes by referencing the `code` field or describing the `name` field
- Do NOT show a slash command — show the code value and agent load instruction instead

Example presentation for empty command:
```
Explain Concept (EC)
Load: /tech-writer, then ask to "EC about [topic]"
Agent: Tech Writer
Description: Create clear technical explanations with examples...
```

## MODULE DETECTION

- **Empty `module` column** → universal tools (work across all modules)
- **Named `module`** → module-specific workflows

Detect the active module from conversation context, recent workflows, or user query keywords. If ambiguous, ask the user.

## INPUT ANALYSIS

Determine what was just completed:
- Explicit completion stated by user
- Workflow completed in current conversation
- Artifacts found matching `outputs` patterns
- If `index.md` exists, read it for additional context
- If still unclear, ask: "What workflow did you most recently complete?"

## EXECUTION

1. **Load catalog** — Load `{project-root}/_bmad/_config/bmad-help.csv`

2. **Resolve output locations and config** — Scan each folder under `{project-root}/_bmad/` (except `_config`) for `config.yaml`. For each workflow row, resolve its `output-location` variables against that module's config so artifact paths can be searched. Also extract `communication_language` and `project_knowledge` from each scanned module's config.

3. **Ground in project knowledge** — If `project_knowledge` resolves to an existing path, read available documentation files (architecture docs, project overview, tech stack references) for grounding context. Use discovered project facts when composing any project-specific output. Never fabricate project-specific details — if documentation is unavailable, state so.

4. **Detect active module** — Use MODULE DETECTION above

5. **Analyze input** — Task may provide a workflow name/code, conversational phrase, or nothing. Infer what was just completed using INPUT ANALYSIS above.

6. **Present recommendations** — Show next steps based on:
   - Completed workflows detected
   - Phase/sequence ordering (ROUTING RULES)
   - Artifact presence

   **Optional items first** — List optional workflows until a required step is reached
   **Required items next** — List the next required workflow

   For each item, apply DISPLAY RULES above and include:
   - Workflow **name**
   - **Command** OR **Code + Agent load instruction** (per DISPLAY RULES)
   - **Agent** title and display name from the CSV (e.g., "🎨 Alex (Designer)")
   - Brief **description**

7. **Additional guidance to convey**:
   - Present all output in `{communication_language}`
   - Run each workflow in a **fresh context window**
   - For **validation workflows**: recommend using a different high-quality LLM if available
   - For conversational requests: match the user's tone while presenting clearly

8. Return to the calling process after presenting recommendations.
