docs/site/rules/missing-cross-references.md, before:

# `missing-cross-references`

{{ rule_header() }}

## What it detects

This rule flags module docstrings that are missing a `See Also:` section, or where the `See Also:` section lacks cross-reference syntax (backtick-quoted identifiers, Sphinx roles, or Markdown links including reference-style links).

## Why is this a problem?

Modules serve as navigation entry points in documentation. Without cross-references, users landing on a module page in mkdocs have no links to related modules or classes. This breaks the discoverability that makes documentation sites useful — readers are left to browse the navigation tree manually.

## Example

=== "Violation"

    ```python
    # myapp/utils/__init__.py
    """Utility functions for the myapp package."""
    ```

=== "Fix"

    ```python hl_lines="4 5 6"
    # myapp/utils/__init__.py
    """Utility functions for the myapp package.

    See Also:
        `myapp.utils.parsing`: String and data parsing helpers.
        `myapp.utils.validation`: Input validation utilities.
    """
    ```

Commit message:

docs(enrichment): update cross-reference rule page for bracket syntax
Update "What it detects" to explain that plain backtick syntax does not
produce clickable links. Update "Fix" example to use bracket
cross-reference syntax.

docs/site/rules/missing-cross-references.md, after:

# `missing-cross-references`

{{ rule_header() }}

## What it detects

This rule flags module docstrings that are missing a `See Also:` section, or where the `See Also:` section lacks linkable cross-reference syntax (bracket references or Sphinx roles). Plain backtick identifiers (`` `module.name` ``) do not satisfy this rule because they render as inline code without a clickable hyperlink in mkdocstrings.

## Why is this a problem?

Modules serve as navigation entry points in documentation. Without cross-references, users landing on a module page in mkdocs have no links to related modules or classes. This breaks the discoverability that makes documentation sites useful — readers are left to browse the navigation tree manually.

## Example

=== "Violation"

    ```python
    # myapp/utils/__init__.py
    """Utility functions for the myapp package."""
    ```

=== "Fix"

    ```python hl_lines="4 5 6"
    # myapp/utils/__init__.py
    """Utility functions for the myapp package.

    See Also:
        [`myapp.utils.parsing`][]: String and data parsing helpers.
        [`myapp.utils.validation`][]: Input validation utilities.
    """
    ```
