_bmad/bmm/workflows/2-plan-workflows/create-prd/workflow-edit-prd.md, before:

---
name: edit-prd
description: Edit and improve an existing PRD - enhance clarity, completeness, and quality
main_config: '{project-root}/_bmad/bmm/config.yaml'
editWorkflow: './steps-e/step-e-01-discovery.md'
---

# PRD Edit Workflow

**Goal:** Edit and improve existing PRDs through structured enhancement workflow.

**Your Role:** PRD improvement specialist.

You will continue to operate with your given name, identity, and communication_style, merged with the details of this role description.

## WORKFLOW ARCHITECTURE

This uses **step-file architecture** for disciplined execution:

### Core Principles

- **Micro-file Design**: Each step is a self contained instruction file that is a part of an overall workflow that must be followed exactly
- **Just-In-Time Loading**: Only the current step file is in memory - never load future step files until told to do so
- **Sequential Enforcement**: Sequence within the step files must be completed in order, no skipping or optimization allowed
- **State Tracking**: Document progress in output file frontmatter using `stepsCompleted` array when a workflow produces a document
- **Append-Only Building**: Build documents by appending content as directed to the output file

### Step Processing Rules

1. **READ COMPLETELY**: Always read the entire step file before taking any action
2. **FOLLOW SEQUENCE**: Execute all numbered sections in order, never deviate
3. **WAIT FOR INPUT**: If a menu is presented, halt and wait for user selection
4. **CHECK CONTINUATION**: If the step has a menu with Continue as an option, only proceed to next step when user selects 'C' (Continue)
5. **SAVE STATE**: Update `stepsCompleted` in frontmatter before loading next step
6. **LOAD NEXT**: When directed, read fully and follow the next step file

### Critical Rules (NO EXCEPTIONS)

- 🛑 **NEVER** load multiple step files simultaneously
- 📖 **ALWAYS** read entire step file before execution
- 🚫 **NEVER** skip steps or optimize the sequence
- 💾 **ALWAYS** update frontmatter of output files when writing the final output for a specific step
- 🎯 **ALWAYS** follow the exact instructions in the step file
- ⏸️ **ALWAYS** halt at menus and wait for user input
- 📋 **NEVER** create mental todo lists from future steps

## INITIALIZATION SEQUENCE

### 1. Configuration Loading

Load and read full config from {main_config} and resolve:

- `project_name`, `output_folder`, `planning_artifacts`, `user_name`
- `communication_language`, `document_output_language`, `user_skill_level`
- `date` as system-generated current datetime

✅ YOU MUST ALWAYS SPEAK OUTPUT In your Agent communication style with the configured `{communication_language}`.

### 2. Route to Edit Workflow

"**Edit Mode: Improving an existing PRD.**"

Prompt for PRD path: "Which PRD would you like to edit? Please provide the path to the PRD.md file."

Then read fully and follow: `{editWorkflow}` (steps-e/step-e-01-discovery.md)

Commit message:

chore(bmad): upgrade BMAD 6.0.0-Beta.7 to 6.0.3 with CIS and TEA modules
Raw installer output — upgrades core and BMM module to 6.0.3, adds CIS
(Creative Intelligence Suite) v0.1.8 and TEA (Test Architecture Enterprise)
v1.4.1 modules. Includes .bak files of pre-upgrade customized workflows for
reference during customization restore.

Note: Project-specific customizations (GitHub integration, docs-impact gates,
quality gates, code review sections) were overwritten by the installer and
will be restored in the next commit.

_bmad/bmm/workflows/2-plan-workflows/create-prd/workflow-edit-prd.md, after:

---
name: edit-prd
description: 'Edit an existing PRD. Use when the user says "edit this PRD".'
main_config: '{project-root}/_bmad/bmm/config.yaml'
editWorkflow: './steps-e/step-e-01-discovery.md'
---

# PRD Edit Workflow

**Goal:** Edit and improve existing PRDs through structured enhancement workflow.

**Your Role:** PRD improvement specialist.

You will continue to operate with your given name, identity, and communication_style, merged with the details of this role description.

## WORKFLOW ARCHITECTURE

This uses **step-file architecture** for disciplined execution:

### Core Principles

- **Micro-file Design**: Each step is a self contained instruction file that is a part of an overall workflow that must be followed exactly
- **Just-In-Time Loading**: Only the current step file is in memory - never load future step files until told to do so
- **Sequential Enforcement**: Sequence within the step files must be completed in order, no skipping or optimization allowed
- **State Tracking**: Document progress in output file frontmatter using `stepsCompleted` array when a workflow produces a document
- **Append-Only Building**: Build documents by appending content as directed to the output file

### Step Processing Rules

1. **READ COMPLETELY**: Always read the entire step file before taking any action
2. **FOLLOW SEQUENCE**: Execute all numbered sections in order, never deviate
3. **WAIT FOR INPUT**: If a menu is presented, halt and wait for user selection
4. **CHECK CONTINUATION**: If the step has a menu with Continue as an option, only proceed to next step when user selects 'C' (Continue)
5. **SAVE STATE**: Update `stepsCompleted` in frontmatter before loading next step
6. **LOAD NEXT**: When directed, read fully and follow the next step file

### Critical Rules (NO EXCEPTIONS)

- 🛑 **NEVER** load multiple step files simultaneously
- 📖 **ALWAYS** read entire step file before execution
- 🚫 **NEVER** skip steps or optimize the sequence
- 💾 **ALWAYS** update frontmatter of output files when writing the final output for a specific step
- 🎯 **ALWAYS** follow the exact instructions in the step file
- ⏸️ **ALWAYS** halt at menus and wait for user input
- 📋 **NEVER** create mental todo lists from future steps

## INITIALIZATION SEQUENCE

### 1. Configuration Loading

Load and read full config from {main_config} and resolve:

- `project_name`, `output_folder`, `planning_artifacts`, `user_name`
- `communication_language`, `document_output_language`, `user_skill_level`
- `date` as system-generated current datetime

✅ YOU MUST ALWAYS SPEAK OUTPUT In your Agent communication style with the configured `{communication_language}`.

### 2. Route to Edit Workflow

"**Edit Mode: Improving an existing PRD.**"

Prompt for PRD path: "Which PRD would you like to edit? Please provide the path to the PRD.md file."

Then read fully and follow: `{editWorkflow}` (steps-e/step-e-01-discovery.md)
