_bmad/bmm/workflows/bmad-quick-flow/quick-dev/workflow.md, before:

---
name: quick-dev
description: 'Flexible development - execute tech-specs OR direct instructions with optional planning.'
---

# Quick Dev Workflow

**Goal:** Execute implementation tasks efficiently, either from a tech-spec or direct user instructions.

**Your Role:** You are an elite full-stack developer executing tasks autonomously. Follow patterns, ship code, run tests. Every response moves the project forward.

---

## WORKFLOW ARCHITECTURE

This uses **step-file architecture** for focused execution:

- Each step loads fresh to combat "lost in the middle"
- State persists via variables: `{baseline_commit}`, `{execution_mode}`, `{tech_spec_path}`
- Sequential progression through implementation phases

---

## INITIALIZATION

### Configuration Loading

Load config from `{project-root}/_bmad/bmm/config.yaml` and resolve:

- `user_name`, `communication_language`, `user_skill_level`
- `output_folder`, `planning_artifacts`,  `implementation_artifacts`
- `date` as system-generated current datetime
- ✅ YOU MUST ALWAYS SPEAK OUTPUT In your Agent communication style with the config `{communication_language}`

### Paths

- `installed_path` = `{project-root}/_bmad/bmm/workflows/bmad-quick-flow/quick-dev`
- `project_context` = `**/project-context.md` (load if exists)

### Related Workflows

- `quick_spec_workflow` = `{project-root}/_bmad/bmm/workflows/bmad-quick-flow/quick-spec/workflow.md`
- `party_mode_exec` = `{project-root}/_bmad/core/workflows/party-mode/workflow.md`
- `advanced_elicitation` = `{project-root}/_bmad/core/workflows/advanced-elicitation/workflow.xml`

---

## EXECUTION

Read fully and follow: `steps/step-01-mode-detection.md` to begin the workflow.

Commit message:

chore(bmad): upgrade BMAD 6.0.0-Beta.7 to 6.0.3 with CIS and TEA modules
Raw installer output — upgrades core and BMM module to 6.0.3, adds CIS
(Creative Intelligence Suite) v0.1.8 and TEA (Test Architecture Enterprise)
v1.4.1 modules. Includes .bak files of pre-upgrade customized workflows for
reference during customization restore.

Note: Project-specific customizations (GitHub integration, docs-impact gates,
quality gates, code review sections) were overwritten by the installer and
will be restored in the next commit.

_bmad/bmm/workflows/bmad-quick-flow/quick-dev/workflow.md, after:

---
name: quick-dev
description: 'Implement a Quick Tech Spec for small changes or features. Use when the user provides a quick tech spec and says "implement this quick spec" or "proceed with implementation of [quick tech spec]"'
---

# Quick Dev Workflow

**Goal:** Execute implementation tasks efficiently, either from a tech-spec or direct user instructions.

**Your Role:** You are an elite full-stack developer executing tasks autonomously. Follow patterns, ship code, run tests. Every response moves the project forward.

---

## WORKFLOW ARCHITECTURE

This uses **step-file architecture** for focused execution:

- Each step loads fresh to combat "lost in the middle"
- State persists via variables: `{baseline_commit}`, `{execution_mode}`, `{tech_spec_path}`
- Sequential progression through implementation phases

---

## INITIALIZATION

### Configuration Loading

Load config from `{project-root}/_bmad/bmm/config.yaml` and resolve:

- `user_name`, `communication_language`, `user_skill_level`
- `planning_artifacts`, `implementation_artifacts`
- `date` as system-generated current datetime
- ✅ YOU MUST ALWAYS SPEAK OUTPUT In your Agent communication style with the config `{communication_language}`

### Paths

- `installed_path` = `{project-root}/_bmad/bmm/workflows/bmad-quick-flow/quick-dev`
- `project_context` = `**/project-context.md` (load if exists)

### Related Workflows

- `quick_spec_workflow` = `{project-root}/_bmad/bmm/workflows/bmad-quick-flow/quick-spec/workflow.md`
- `party_mode_exec` = `{project-root}/_bmad/core/workflows/party-mode/workflow.md`
- `advanced_elicitation` = `{project-root}/_bmad/core/workflows/advanced-elicitation/workflow.xml`

---

## EXECUTION

Read fully and follow: `{project-root}/_bmad/bmm/workflows/bmad-quick-flow/quick-dev/steps/step-01-mode-detection.md` to begin the workflow.
